Defining Targets
Once Nessus is installed,
it’s time to set up our first scan.
To begin, we simply click
the “New Scan” button.
Nessus supports a number
of different scan types.
We recommend investigating these scan
types, but for this introductory section,
we will focus on a standard,
basic network scan,
which we can launch
by clicking on “Basic Network Scan”.
The scan configuration settings screen
has two required arguments:
a name for our scan
and a list of targets.
Nessus supports adding targets as an IP address,
an IP range,
or as a comma-delimited list.
For this example, we will scan the
Gamma machine in the PWK labs.
We will enter “Gamma - Basic”
into the Name field
and the IP address into the Targets field: